---
layout: post
title:      "Why Coding?"
date:       2019-02-08 21:09:11 +0000
permalink:  why_coding
---


I recently graduated from Boston University with a degree in Business Administration and Management, with a concentration in Finance. I had secured a full-time job offer early on in my Senior year in the Sales organization of one of the largest, most prestigious tech companies in the world. All else equal, this new opportunity seemed perfect in the eyes of society. Unfortunately for me, it was not exactly what I had aspired to do, but the way things worked out and considering all of the external pressures a student faces their senior year of college, I was deeply inclined to accept the offer. Needless to say, one year later, I found myself leaving the exact job I had been hesitant about accepting. My intuition didn't lie. In fact, it was probably the one voice of reason in a stressful, college campus pre-graduation. I am very grateful for the opportunities I've had, for all of the lessons I've learned along the way. Today's post will be more selfish than the rest of my posts. It will dive deep into my personal mantra; the reasons why I left the business world and decided to dive into coding. 

As I mentioned before, I wasn't happy, fulfilled, or felt like I was learning in the Sales world. I think post-college existential crises' are not talked about enough, and are very tough to deal with nowadays. One of society's biggest flaws, in my opinion, is the fact that you need to go to school for 'x' amount of years having decided what you will dedicate yourself to for the rest of your life and after that it's almost as if you're stuck doing that. It's a very difficult task nowadays to switch careers (cue my existential crisis). I am a person, who thinks about my purpose and why I'm here (why we're all here, for that matter) every single day of my life, and my humble origins have luckily taught me that money should never be my motivation. So I'm always asking to myself, "Why am I doing this?" So, after a few months in the Sales world, I had felt purpose-less, with the only motivations being competition and pay, coupled with the fact that I felt as if I was learning nothing that was going to lead me to a long-term impact towards anything I truly care about. I left the Sales world. I think one of the things about myself that I'm most proud of, is the fact that I never settle for anything short of extroardinary and fulfilling; Why should I? Life is way too short to settle for anything less. And that's exactly what I've committed to now, a life of impact, purpose, and excitement. 

So many of you may be asking yourselves now, why did I choose coding?

**Freedom**
Coding opens up an entire universe of possibilities, simple as that. More financial freedom, more cultural freedom, freedom to choose your own hours, the list goes on and on. One of the most important factors for me as well, is the fact that I can now take ownership of any side projects, and leave infinite opportunity towards the scope of them. My entreprenurial belly is completely satisfied with coding. But the most freeing aspect of all is actually coding itself. Programming can be considered as an intersection between art, technology, and science. It is a tool to create, as is a paintbrush, and as is a mircoscope. Coding gives you the freedom to be an artist, a problem-solver, a researcher, a philosoper, and an innovator. You can code for any use you want, and that's incredibly freeing.

**Always Learning and Innovating**
Programming has always seemed like an art to me. But an art that continues to rewrite itself, update itself, and eventually replace itself. If you don't keep up with everything, you will be left behind. There is a never-ending learning curve that keeps me on my toes, always wanting to read up on the latest technologies, so that I can stay ahead of the game. The most exciting part about that, is that there are always ways to build upon other technology, and the more we build as a society, the more powerful and innovative we can be. Right now, we are focusing efforts on Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning to improve medicine, infrastructure, cybersecurity, energy, etc.; Imagine the potential uses if the only way to go is up (minding ethical programming). We, as programmers, will lead society and advance exponentially as we continue to learn and innovate. 

**Flow**
A few years ago, I became completely obssessed with Steven Kotler's idea of "flow". He describes “flow,” as an optimal state of consciousness in which we perform and feel our best, usually felt by extreme sports athletes. Some people may have experienced this, while others have not, yet. But, the best way to describe it, as a heightened sense of mindfulness where your sense of self and time vanish, and you become *one* with the activity and increase every aspect of your performance through the roof. 

As someone who's life revolved around football (soccer) for 18 years of my life, "flow" was a concept I was deeply familiar with, and would crave the feeling day in and day out. Nowadays, I suffer from "flow" withdrawals. However, considering the intensity of coding, I've been able to enter "flow" occasionally, in different ways. I've had several conversations with fellow programmers, and they can all agree that coding is some of the most mindful practices there is. When you're coding, you become so immersed in the problem that you lose your sense of self and time, sometimes even waking up from the state deep into the night realizing you haven't eaten or slept. This transcendtal feeling, is something that has pulled me into the world of coding, cause we can all agree that after all, coding is one of the most extreme sports there are. 

**Having Direct Impact**
I've always been interested in tech, even when I was deep into the business world. But somehow, with business, I always felt like a lot of it was BS, and not as impactful. Some people can be content with not actually impacting their environment, short-term or long-term. Others can happily cold call 100 potential clients a day for a mission they don't care about, for their own extrinsic motivation. I'm not judging those people, in fact, I envy them, they're happier with less. For me, however, I need to be immediately having an impact; I need to feel like my presence is uniquely affecting the overall business. As a coder, you spend your days actually building, actually *doing*, instead of being a bystander. You are directly either solving problems or innovating, at whatever scope you want. Your code can *directly* impact billions of people around the world, for generations to come. It is a timeless creation nowadays; Code is as common and as necessary as water is to society. And it will get only even more powerful. 



I am very excited to begin my life as a programmer, wherever that may take me. All I know is, I now am living a more authentic version of myself, and I have commited myself to being apart of the team that will take society to great levels. I can't wait to see what the future holds. If you ever want to grab coffee or chat about my path, or even any crazy topic you can think of, feel free to send me a message via LinkedIn or email me at bermnicolas@gmail.com.




